Day In Review...
Today we focused on routing-which lies within the third layer involving networking.
The first question used to stimulate our minds was "How does a router know the other routers are there?"
In which we began expanding on metrics and rules. Those of which are used to determine the "best pathway". Whether via hops, speed or latency.
Routing over all is known to transfer packets from one network to another using a router, joining two or more networks, maintaining the path and transmitting based on IP addresses.
One of the biggest differences between a router and a switch is that the router connects 2 or more LANs, while the switch specifically connects to its own LAN.
When it comes to routing; you have routing packets and data packets, in which routing packets are like the roadtrip itself, checking, discovering- while the data packets are the actual transmission of data.
You have static and dynamic routing. Static manually configuring to a predetermined destination. It is simple, secure, reliable, predictable, and efficient.
On the other hand, dynamic is based upon an ALGORITHM that determines the best path. Known to be more flexible, resilient, complex and less secure. 
So, they both have their pros and cons. 
We learned about the different routing metrics; such as hop count, bandwidth, traffic, latency, and (MTU) Max Transmission Unit( The max size a packet can be transmitted.
When dealing with routing you have a payload and frames. The main thing is the payload never changes, but the frames get broken off and wrapped into another. 
Though the packets are transmitted based on IP addresses, the ARP is used to find the MAC address-which also never changes.
One major thing is that the default gateway must always be a router, it can never be a workstation.
Within all of this; we also learned the process of packet forwarding.. Receive, Examine, Consult, Decide, and Forward .
When Dealing with the routing ALGORITHMS; you have variations such as 1.Distance-Vector, 2.Link-State, and 3.Hybrid. 
Other terms we focused on were; Routing info, interior gateway protocol, open shortest path first, intermediate system to intermediate system and enhanced interior gateway.
1.RIP, IGRP; Router shares with neighbor, easy to setup/configure, slow convergence, and metrics are base on hops. Used for smaller networks. Based on rumors.
2. OSPF, IS-IS; shares with all other routers, provides a complete view of network decisions, and based on factual information. 
Difficult to setup/configure, fast convergence and metrics based on bandwidth, latency, and even cost.
3.EIGRP
Last but not least the ALGORITHM, will be based on CPU and RAM.
