Day in review...
Today in class, we discussed NAT (Network Address Translation)
A process that translates a public IP to a private or vicd versa, helps preserve limited amount of IPv4-by allowing one IP to be used by all the devices outside of a network.
It is known that private IPs are only used internally, while public are used externally.
Has the advantage of eliminating the use of IPv6.
There are four differnet variations of NAT; 1.Static(SNAT), 2.Dynamic(DNAT), 3.Port(PAT) and 4.Port forwarding.
1. SNAT, though static is normally used to identify a manual input, in this case it also represents a constant, as this NAT never changes. 
Also known to be limited to a number of IPs/leases.  *This* is predetermined to tie to *This* Incoming traffic.
2.DNAT, though known to represent auto input of information, in this case is also reprsented as a data pool of information. 
This variation is constantly changing via the pool of available IPs/ leases available. 
It will remain the same as long as the connection is made, but once it is dropped so is the DNAT. AKA IP masquerading.
3.PAT is currently the most common variation used, it acquires the translation, by port number to keep the IP's organized. Handles taffic going out of the internet.
4.Port forwarding is one that controls the incoming traffic from the internet to the servers via rules 
that allow specifc connections to reach devices inside a private network-based on the port number the traffic is trying to access.
An edge router is known to be at the boundary of a network which connects to an external network, manages the flow of databetween the internal 
and external network and routes data to its destination and applies NAT along with security measures.
This provides load balancing and fault tolerance.
In that aspect ypu have 1.customer vs 2.provider edge. 
1.Connects internal network to providers network acting as a security barrier for customers network.
2.Focuses on maintaining th e integrity and confidentiality of customer data a it travels accross poviders net.
