Day In Review...
Today in class we talked about firewalls, what they do, the different types and why they're effective in their own ways.
From hardware, to software, cloudbased and unifies threat managment.
A firewalls is known to filter via MAC address, IP address, domain name, subnet mask, port number, traffic, key words, protocol or even conversation.
When using a stateless firewall you are working with predefined rules & no history, one packet at a time on layers 3 and 4.
While a stateful firewalldeals with data flow, recording data history, more than one packet at a time.
Host based is software only protecting the computer, network based is a hybrid of software and hardware protecting the entire network.
An intranet is a private network that is heavily protected by many devices.
You have portfiltering, MACfiltering, IPfiltering and contentfiltering which are all applied in a statelessfilter.
While dynamic filtertering is applied to stateful. As those packets are examined as a stream.
The procees of a stateful firewall involves it taking packets-reassembling them into their original data, 
making a forwarding decision based on data content, which then allows or denies.
Unified Threat Management combines a firewall, antivirus and intrusion protection.
Another level of filtering is circuit level gateway which makes decisions based on virtual circuits in the session layer 
and verifies established TCP connections and keeps track of active sessions.
The Application layer firewalls decide based on application, 
it doesnt allow incoming traffic to travel into the network unless it is created in a specific application.
Appliance firewall is just a stand alone, just a firewall.
A router can have firewalla functionality built in.
When dealing with a proxy it is known as the middle man, as it hides your public IP address, acting as an agent for the client.
The proxy will retrieve the website for you and stores it in a centralized cache database.
It's known to save bandwidth by already having the cached data so it doesnt have to work as hard to retrieve a second time around. 
Although it cannot encrypt data, using a VPN can, with no logging and it works through a secure tunnel. 
Yesterday we started to see the similarities in NAT and Proxy, but the main thing that makes them different is the fact that proxy filrer while NAT doesn't.
Closing out the class we started to go over network types PAN, CAN, LAN, WAN, MAN, AND SAN.
1.Personal, 2.Campus, 3.Local, 4.Wireless, 5.Metropolitan, and 6.Storage. 
1. Kind of speaks for itself, like a bluetooth.
2. Conncects 2 or more LANs together.
3. Is a group of devices located in close proximity. With ethernet being the most common. 
4. Wireless communication
5. Larger than CAN, spans over several buildings in a city.
6. A special high-speed network that stores and provides access to large amounts of data.
To end class we reviewed the different topologies ( how networks are connected; whether physical, logical or hybrid)
While also touching on a new one "3 Tier Hierarchy" that contain core , distibution and access servers. 
Towards the end of the day a select few of us attended a feedback meeting which I felt will be productive to the upcoming cohorts.
We also attended Napa24' graduation ceremony which was a delight and absolutely inspiring. 
