Day In Review...

Authentication & Access Control Notes
Password Attacks
Dictionary Attack: Uses pre-defined words/phrases.

Brute Force Attack: Tries every possible combo of letters, numbers, symbols.

Defense: Awareness training, strong password policies.

Authentication (Single/Multifactor)
Verifies Identity of a User:

Type 1: What you know (passwords, PINs, security questions)
Type 2: What you have (tokens, smart cards, phones)
Type 3: What you are (biometrics like fingerprints, facial features)
Type 4: What you do (behavioral patterns)
Type 5: Where you are (geolocation)

Identity & Access Management (IAM)
Identification: Making a claim (e.g., username)

Authentication: Proving the claim

Authorization: Granting access

Accounting (Audit): Tracking activity

Single Sign-On (SSO)
One set of credentials to access multiple applications.

Authentication Types
Local Authentication
Code used to validate users locally.

Hashing: Secure storage of passwords.

Data stored in cryptographic hash form.

Central Authentication Server (CAS)
Used with protocols like:

Kerberos
RADIUS
TACACS+
Active Directory
Offers cost efficiency, consistent management.

Certificates & Encryption
Certificate Authority (CA)
Trusted third-party that validates digital certs.

Digital Certificates (X.509)
Prove ownership of public key.

Vendors: Amazon, Google, DigiCert, GoDaddy

Digital Signatures
Verifies identity, confirms integrity, ensures non-repudiation.

Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
Framework for managing public/private keys, digital certs.

Protocols & Systems
Kerberos
Provides SSO (used in Active Directory).

Uses Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) for secure identity management.

Flow:
Client requests service
Server verifies via Key Distribution Center (KDC)

TGS issues service ticket
App Service accepts ticket

AAA Model
Authentication, Authorization, Accounting

RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service)
Uses ports 1812/1813 (UDP)

Encrypts only the password

TACACS+ (Terminal Access Controller Access Control System Plus)
Admin-focused, more secure than RADIUS

Encrypts the full packet using TCP port 49


LightWeight Directory Access Protocol LDAP/AD
Allows users and apps to find info on people, files, software, devices and organization on the internet
Transmitted through HTTPS
Centalized database
Hierarchal tree
LDAPS: Secure with digital cert. 
Unsecure 389. Secure 636

802.1x / NAC (Network Access Control) / EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol)
A way to authenticate computer
