Day In Review..
Today we began by focusing on the application layer...
In that we touched on ports, their purpose, function and more.
A port is not a physical connection, but a logical one. 
For some time I personally didn't understand why Mr.Darryl would refer to the 
physical connection as a jack and not a port, but now I get it.
A port is known to determine which program/service on a computer/server is going to be used. 
It is a 16 bit value
The process is something like DNS-->IP-->assigned port to IP.
There are three different ranges of ports; System/Well known (0-1023), 
User/Registered (1024-49151), & Dynamic/Private/Ephemeral (49152-65535).
System/Well known ports are reserved by TCP and UDP and are assigned by IANA: Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.
The Registered/User port range is not assigned or controlled by IANA, but users must register with IANA.
And finally the Dynamic/Ephemeral range is open to use without IANA approval and is used by client programs.
Ephemeral means it is a temporary port number.
We went over many of the System/well known ports such as: HTTP 80, HTTPS 443, RDP 3389, FTP 20-21, 
SMTP 25, SSH 22, POP3 110, TELNET 23, DHCP 67-68, DNS 53, TFTP 69, SNTP 123, IMAP4 143, 
IDAP 389, SMB 445, SIP/VOIP 5050-5051, and MYSQL 3306.
To follow up , we discussed NETSTAT, a CLI tool used to display current network connections and port activity.
We also learn the difference between a connection vs a session. A connection represents a medium or channel connected for communication.
While a session refers to the limited time of the convo between two systems.
All sessions must have a start and an ending.
When dealing with TCP/IP any single connection between two computers is a session.
A computer can simultaneously have many sessions and connections.
A socket is and IP + Port number . One side of a socket is the endpoint , two sides is a socket pair or end points.
TCP/UDP uses sockets to communicate with each other.
Connection= 2 sockets + 2 endpoints
When using TCP you have a 3 tier handshake: starting from your computer it sends a SYN (synchronization) signal, 
then the other computer sends a SYN ACK (acknowledgment) and the original computer signals that the ACK was received and the data is then delivered.
Last, but not least we reviewed NETSTAT, a CLI command that resolves numbers to names and can be combined with subcommands or switches to alter the outcome.
Some examples of this are as followed; netstat -n: showing numbers only, netstat -a: showing active connections, netstat -l: listening ports, 
netstat -p: showing the running process, netstat -b: showing the running program(s), netstat -t: showing the tcp socket, netstat -f: showing fully qualified DNS, and netstat -r: for routing.
To wrap up the day we reviewed DHCP and dug a little deeper. This service runs on ports 68 & 69. It uses the process called D.O.R.A; Discover, Offer, Request, Acknowledge. 
We covered what a scope is, which is a range and lease ( the amount of time an IP can be used). We also went over reservations and exclusions, one being “Hold this for me” and another being “Don’t touch this”.
IP’s are leased and not given to prevent IP addresses from running out.
When using DHCP, instead of having multiple you can have one, by using a DHCP relay agent that can be enabled through CLI 
Oh and don’t let me forget DHCPv6, involving SLAAC: A stateless address automatically configured. It’s the hosts ability to retrieve the address by itself. Stateless meaning no server maintain a state (IP) for a longer period of time than a lease allows. 
