Day In Review...
On today we had Mr. Cofield in for professional development.
He recppaed the previous class discussions and critical thinking assignments we had done, such as our values, the enneagrams and so on.
And today he wanted us to think about discipline and what ways we have been disciplined during this course as well as ways we can become more disciplined for success.
Many of my classmates mentioned things from Mr.Bricker such as planning your outfit the day before and making sure to get enough rest to be productive the next day, which were the two that resonated with me the most.
I myself mentioned knowingmy weaknesses and Tv, social media having been two of them-I had to offload the apps and I only now watch Tv when I'm eating.
He made the joke " Have you found yourself eating more?" Which I thought was pretty funny and a realistic question in all honesty because the mind can and will do some tricky stuff like that. 
The ways I seem myself being more disciplined is finding at least 30min-1hr to create and exercise. As I need to have this balance in my logic and creativity or I feel unfulfilled.
And it is paramount that I get the proper amount of stretching and movement in per my previous circumstances. 
We were suppsoed to have a woman come in from master card, a vulnerability specialist, but she couldn't make it due to a family emergency.
So-J.W. made it his mission to go through the Jason Dion practice quizz with us up until lunch, which deemed pretty helpful. 
After lunch Primous came in to speak to us on cultural communications and we did a fun kahoot game , in which I was shocked so many of my classmates had never played before. 
But everyone seemed to enjoy and be engaged... I firmly believe if we did reviews like that with our Cyber content it would be a more effective way of retaining information while keeping us engaged and that feeling of excitment will help it stick.
To end class we broke out into groups, reviewed prompts on specific conversations and responses being held in foreign countries and had to answer the questions that came with it and find a more appropriate way to respond as some things can come off as rude or disrespectul in other cultures, though not intended.
